CHAPTER 9

The next few days were as normal as the crew could hope. Starry Vine
made pretty good time, her crew were (mostly) content, the wind was
more of a help than a hindrance, the weather fared remarkably well,
and she didn't run into any more crazy orca-squid machines. Smooth
sailing, overall.

She was expected to come within sights of the Ucrostica
sub-archipelago in the morning, just in time for lunch, according to
Netto's calculations. Even though they had zero intention to drop
anchor at the main Ucrostican settlement, Kriyata Harbor, the plan
nevertheless called for replacing the wolfskull standard with
something more benign, to minimize suspicion as they passed by. The
standard would go back up again when Starry Vine would dock in a
hidden cove several miles north and inland of Kriyata Harbor. The
purpose of staying there was to formulate a proper plan for the real
mission. Someone friendly in the area was bound to have a newer,
better map of the less-explored regions near the Storm Wall,
considering how The Temple of the Craft had recently become a
hot-button topic among the seafaring community. Stratus already had a
few names in mind. The Starry Vine crew would carefully review this
new information, compare and contrast it with their current
intelligence, then -- finally -- strike.

It was foolproof.

Kriyata Harbor was situated on the eastern shore of the Ucrostican
Isle of Kriyata. The rugged, mountainy terrain of the island seemed
regal in the summertime, with verdant fields of wildflowers that were
visible even for miles. Justinienne could appreciate them with the
naked eye from her perch in the crow's nest, thanks to the deep, lush
colors of the grass and the good visibility. The wolfskull standard
squeaked downwards, which caught her off-guard, even though she knew
it to be part of The Plan. Only a minute later, the friendly,
multi-starred Port Sokuit flag lumbered into its place.

The southern edge of Kriyata Harbor came into view with the help of
Justinienne's spyglass. She gave the sign to the crew on deck to begin
turning northeast. The sails were folded in tightly to capture the
wind at the correct angle, and indeed, Starry Vine was put back on
course. Navigating through the channel past Kriyata Harbor was not the
hard part. The hard part was finding the secret inland cove.
Justinienne had been there once before. Fenicia and Zephyr, at least
once. Nimbus, never. Stratus and Netto, dozens of times, but it had
been at least a decade, so they relied upon the expertise of a
crewmate donkey named Willora, who was born on the island not far from
the hideout. In fact, she was named after the island's wildflowers.
Kriyata's mountains were pretty, but the complicated geography of
highlands and lowlands meant places tended to be hidden. A beast could
be only a few hundred paces away from another and not know it, nestled
securely in their own private valley.

The otter took another look through the varnished sablewood spyglass.
She noticed a peculiar structure jutting out of a miniscule,
uninhabited island that was little more than just a big rock. The
structure had to have been built with an animal's paws -- nature could
not have forged something so perfectly straight -- but it seemed to
serve no purpose, either. A leftover beam from an abandoned house's
frame, perhaps. It seemed harmeless and it certainly wasn't the way of
the Galleon, so Justinienne didn't mention it to anyone.

Willora's knowledge was indispensable. Ignoring the awkward appearance
of a seafaring ship on a river -- *upriver*, even -- it was smooth
sailing through the otherwise complicated delta north of Kriyata
Harbor, and she confirmed the correct path through the maze of
tributaries. The river currents were not at all what one would expect.
It really did seem like they cheated physics as they navigated towars
the Labyrinth Canyons of northeastern Kriya. Netto furiously scribbled
as much of Willora's wisdom as he could with his trusty albatross
quill.

The turns were tight, but despite Starry Vine's size, she could
squeeze around them effortlessly like a strangleroot plant. The only
reason why Stratus even considered the plan in the first place is
because he had firsthoof experience which proved she could, in fact,
fit. It was perfectly midday, but Starry Vine suddenly was
encapsulated fully under the shadow of the skyscraping canyon walls.
Lani reacted to the solar eclipse, squawking in confusion.